# Background
Open science is a pillar to The Montreal Neurological Institute’s (The Neuro) patient-centered approach for scientific research. Central to this initiative is the [C-BIG Repository](https://cbigr-open.loris.ca/), a comprehensive database that includes biospecimen samples, clinical data, imaging, and genetic information from individuals with neurological disorders, as well as  controls. C-BIG provides publicly available data accessible to researchers worldwide, promoting collaboration and fostering collective efforts to improve patient care. Building on this foundation, we aim to establish a framework that will make all single-cell and spatial RNAseq data generated at The Neuro publicly available in a single location, thereby further expanding access to essential resources to accelerate scientific discovery.

Multiple platforms are available to host public RNAseq data (e.g., Gene Expression Omnibus [GEO]); however, they often lack standardized protocols for data publication, leading to inconsistent nomenclature, data formats, and metadata, which pose challenges for future research by external groups. Additionally, the absence of uniform pre-processing pipelines prior to public upload can introduce variability, hindering the ability to conduct joint analyses across multiple independent datasets. We aim to address these limitations using a standardized framework for data publication, ensuring consistency across all RNAseq datasets on C-BIG. 

This document outlines the framework for making RNAseq data publicly available on C-BIG. We begin by detailing the standardized processing protocol used to ensure consistency across all uploaded data. We then describe the various formats in which data is available. Finally, we provide a step-by-step guide for administrators to apply the standardized processing pipelines to different data types.

For any questions regarding the protocols outlined in this document, or for inquiries about uploading your data, please contact [Michael Fiorini](mailto:michael.fiorini@mail.mcgill.ca).

